So, this expense tracker has taken some shape
and it's basically finished
from the core functionality at least
we got all the core features implemented.
We can add expenses, we can filter our expenses.
But if you remember the original state
which I showed you a couple of hours ago
then there is one crucial element and feature
which is missing.
The chart where we can actually see
a graphical representation of our expenses per month.
And that is therefore what we're now going to dive into
to then conclude this module and this first course project.
Now, for this chart
I will start by adding a new components folder
which I'll name Chart because it will hold
all the components that are related to the chart
and I will split up the chart into two main components.
For one that's the chart itself, the chart component
which we can add to our application
but then inside of the chart we have all these bars
and I will actually create a separate component for those.
The chart bar component.
So, we'll have these two components
and we're also going to have some styles
so, I'll already add a Chart.css and a ChartBar.css file
and you find these two files attached.
So, as always you can copy and paste the styles
you find in there
or simply use these attached CSS files right away.
And then let's start
with the Chart.js file with the chart itself.
There I will import react from react
even though that's technically
not required in this set up but still and then I'll create
my chart functional component here, like this.
So, this component function, I should say
and export this, like that.
And now with that in the chart
we of course wanna render all these chart bars.
And the question is now how we wanna do that.
How we wanna structure the JSX code in this component
and how that all should work.
Well, eventually we're going to import
the chart bar component
at the moment it's of course empty
but we're soon going to add something there
and hence I can already add this import
and I then wanna in the end return some JSX code
where we have all these chart bars.
So, maybe we, first of all
set up a div with a class name of chart
to apply that styling.
And for that we then also import
oops! import Chart.css like this
oops! not chart bar but Chart.css to applied styles.
But instead of the diff we now wanna have the bars
and we could simply render 12 individual chart bars
for the 12 months which we have.
But I will actually create a bit of a more flexible chart
which is actually not necessarily restricted
to months and to 12 data points.
Instead, we could say
that when the chart component is being used somewhere
in our application, we wanna receive the data points
that should be plotted as props.
So, that the chart component is fairly configurable
and the components that use the chart component
can decide how many data points
with which values should be rendered.
And therefore, I actually will output
the chart bars dynamically by going through
an array of data points
and mapping every data point to a chart bar.
And that's of course, basically what we already learned
in this module how we output lists of contents dynamically
and that's all why I'm doing it here
so that we again practice this.
So, on props we could expect a data points prop
of course, that name is up to you since it's your component
but I expect the data points prop
and I expect that to hold a value which is an array.
Hence, we can call map on that
and then we map every single data point
into a chart bar component.
So, that we create as many chart bar components
as we have data points.
And then of course we wanna pass some data
into the chart bar to control how it will be rendered.
So, which value will be rendered there.
And for that we of course wanna extract some data
from the incoming data points.
Now, up to this point
we're never using the chart component.
So, we as the creator of this component
can define which kind of data
we expect to extract there in the future.
And for example, we could say
that the chart bar component should receive a value prop
and there we wanna pass data point dot value.
Of course, that will require that in the chart bar
we then read this prop
and that when we define the data points later
that every data point has a value property.
So, that data point is an object which has a value property.
That's what we're basically defining now
since that is how we wanna use that chart component
and the chart bar component in there.
Now, I also wanna make sure
that every chart bar plots the value
in relation to the maximum value in the entire chart.
And therefore, I also wanna pass in a max value property
and that is currently null, let's say
that's not data which we extract from the data point
because that is a unique value
which is the same for all chart bars in a given chart.
So, we will need to derive this max value
and we'll do this in a second.
For the moment, I'll set this to null
but that's just a temporary value.
We probably also wanna have a label though
for example, in this case to have a label
of January, February, March, April and so on.
And therefore I'll add a label prop
and pass in dataPoint.label, like that.
And since we're mapping this
since we're outputting a list here we also should add a key
because you learned that this special key prop
helps react render these list items efficiently.
And therefore I do expect that every data point
also has a unique ID or maybe we actually use the label
so that we say that the label should be unique
every chart bar has its own unique label
and therefore we can also use the label
as a unique identifier for this special key prop here.
That looks good to me.
Now, of course, we wanna continue working
on the chart bar to bring that to life.